all ready hey everybody I think we're
gonna start now
thanks for being patient our talk kind
of requires you to be here from the
start so we wanted to make sure
everybody was in here before we got
started the talk it today is going over
how to deploy your own IP FS
infrastructure or another word for this
to be kind of how to set up your own
node in the cloud or how to be our
competitor it's kind of this will be
your step by step guide so for the talk
today we have we did have three we got -
we got myself my name is Matt I'm from
pinata and we have Michael here who is
from protocol labs he'll be hopping in
later on kind of when we do a little bit
of Q&A type work he works on the
infrastructural side so should have some
knowledge that you guys might find
useful at the end before we start have
you guys loaded up the course github
page I'd recommend doing that right now
there's going to be a lot of copy and
pasting to make this a easy process for
you guys so you know if the type all the
little words and letters that we have on
screen is that can be kind of annoying
so for those of you that don't know how
to get there we can go to just search
ipfs camp and Google you should see the
github link there and the Google results
should show up pretty quickly and then
wait a little bit so yeah I just just go
to the the ipfs camp github page and
then once you're there check out core
and elective courses and then you'll
notice that there is one for course e
once you've clicked on that you should
see a page that looks like this if
you're there doc congratulations you've
made it to the instructions for this
course that should help you how quite a
bit I'll give it a little bit here I get
a show of hands for everybody that's at
that page right now
okay I'll give it a little bit more time
is it bad
okay yeah do you wanna go get Cuba yeah
okay I guess to start off while we're
still here if you guys all have phones
right now if you could turn the Wi-Fi
off on those that'll help us a lot just
to kind of minimize the bandwidth that
we're using on our laptops the majority
of this course you should not need a lot
of bandwidth as we're gonna just be
doing the most of this through SSH which
is very very minimal and bandwidth so
shouldn't be too crazy if as long as we
can at least have some internet
connection yeah yeah exactly
well well well Michael goes and gets
hopefully that that backup will continue
on here are you guys do you guys have
were you guys able to load the github
page yeah okay I'll talk a little bit
here hopefully we can get that loaded
anyway through so in ipfs there's two
important types of nodes that you should
all be aware of
we have server nodes and we have client
nodes and they perform a little bit of a
different role in the ecosystem and the
type of kind of settings that they're
going to need so server nodes are going
to be always online they're typically
going to be hosted in data centers cloud
environments they're focused on
providing content to consumers that want
to retrieve it there they'll frequently
take in content but the majority of
their workload is going to be sending
content out and then we have client
nodes which may come online offline a
lot of them are going to be your
desktops so if any of you guys are
running kind of local Damon's on your
machine you guys would be what we
consider a client node and you be the
ones that you're never going to be able
to really maintain a stable connection
to so it's not you typically don't want
to be serving content on a consumer
device as it'll frequently go offline
and that's not very stable for those
that are wanting to retrieve the content
so for the purpose of this course we're
gonna be focusing on the server how to
deploy your own node in the cloud and
this node will be always online for you
guys should be able to connect to it all
the time and we'll teach you how to make
sure that if it goes down for whatever
reason boots write it back up
hopefully minimize any sort of downtime
that you may have when you're building
is a decentralized application so
there's a lot of cloud providers out
there we have digitalocean Google cloud
Amazon Azure all of them pretty much
provide the same functionality and kind
of offerings mostly we're gonna provide
that virtual server that you can just
spin up and every one of them should
allow you to spin up in a bun 2 or Linux
instance which is what you should be
hosting your cloud infrastructure on
most of the time just runs better so for
this we're going to be using
digitalocean that's what we pinata used
to host our infrastructure we've been
working with our team quite a bit to I
kind of get nodes spun up and make sure
that everything's working right I had
everybody shut off their phones have you
guys noticed any sort of better ok ok I
do apologize the nature of this course
is kind of needs you to be connected to
the Internet if we do have problems if
it if it maintains a problem we can kind
of speed through things a little bit and
get to the Q&A type section is it faster
now
perfect ok yeah for those of you that
are new that just walked in if you could
just shut off your phones or any other
devices that you have urges least
disconnected from the Wi-Fi that'll help
us a lot
helps that little router up there kind
of it's trying its best but we we like
to use data here at these types of
events so to start off with some of you
may already have a digitalocean account
if you do no worries just kind of
tie it we'll get to what you do here in
a minute for signing up we do have a
code that you guys can use yet I think
it's 50 dollars in free credits that
should be more than enough for the
purpose of this course and then when
you're done no worries you won't get
charged just make sure to take down the
node that you set up otherwise then yeah
they will eventually charge you because
you're using them to house stuff but
your credit should actually you don't
get charged for awhile so to start off
with and once we have our account signed
up
we'll go to basically the confirmation
page I'll give it a pause here for I'll
go back to the sign up just so you guys
have that let me know when you've all
signed up and then we can go to kind of
continue on from there the signup
process is probably going to be the most
like lengthy process of this whole event
so I'll let you guys kind of go through
that and and if you don't feel
comfortable signing up feel free to just
kind of watch a partner and hopefully
this will still be an informative course
most of what we're talking about here
today can be applied to any other cloud
providers so if you do have a cloud
provider you like to use or your own
virtual server somewhere most of what
we're doing here will be fairly
applicable and you should be able to
replicate this in another cloud provider
if you're familiar with those settings
when you guys are signed up if I could
just get like a quick raise of hands
I'll kind of keep track of where
looks like we have about 50% of the room
I'll give it a few more minutes here if
you don't want to sign up can you raise
your hand just so I know not to count
you okay perfect
hopefully everybody's week is going well
hopefully you're all learning some fun
stuff
what did you say oh you're way ahead
we'll get there
Oh yep yep you'll just need an Ubuntu
machine that'll be it
but yeah we're all we're just going
through the signup process right now I'm
trying to take it a little slow just
because this will be the most annoying
part of the course so I'm assuming most
of you have gotten there now that are
interested we'll go to the billing page
enter in your credit card stuff you
won't be charged and you can destroy the
note at the end of the course and
basically get rid of your account and
all will be well
digitalocean uses stripe to process
their payments so it's basically world
class industry-leading security your
credit card is not going to get hacked
there's I shouldn't say not it's like a
0.001 percent chance they get hacks but
they do use very good security measures
so yeah yeah so just enter that stuff in
can I get a show of hands once you guys
have all finished the card saving aspect
of it one two okay looks like yeah and
you're on your own so you're good to go
you still working okay perfect alright I
will move on then okay so once we've
gotten that entered in this is less
important but just entering a project
name and just kind of pick some random
stuff it does not really matter it's I
think it's just so I have an idea of
what kind of stuff they should be
prioritizing for their platform yeah
don't worry about it too much just kind
of throw whatever there and then just
click start so once we're there we're
going to the fun part which is creating
our own virtual server on digitalocean
they're called droplets droplets of
water you know this we all like puns in
this space so yeah you know for droplets
to create a droplet we're going to start
off and basically just click on that
that little thing that says new droplet
and that'll take you to the droplet
creation page and yeah we'll go from
there
all right so don't keep pausing if
anybody wants me to slow down or pause
feel free to raise your hand it might be
a more kind of easier way to make sure
everybody's following along in the same
pace don't want people to be left behind
so once we're there
Ubuntu is what we're gonna be setting up
that's the most stable way to host an
IPA fest stone in the cloud okay um are
you it does this look where you're at
like right here are you like this
anything you want it does not matter I
want to say it doesn't affect anything
so just click some random stuff and then
click start and it should be good to go
yep so yeah once we're there we'll click
create new droplet and then we're going
to choose Ubuntu there's a variety of
different nodes specifications you can
choose from the $15 a month one is a
nice kind of it gives you good specs if
you're just running some hobbyist type
work if you start to get into more
enterprise level projects you'll
probably want to increase the size of
your node but yeah for right now eat it
you don't need too much and since we
have some free credits might as well use
them make things fast for this course so
you can enable backups if you want
they're nice to have they cost about 20
percent of the droplet price it's up to
you block storage is a good option for
those of you that are looking for more
flexible data limits so that's it's an
option for when your your node
specifications are going to not really
need to be increased after a certain
point you don't need more RAM you don't
need more cores you just need more
storage so block storage allows you to
have a little bit more of a
flexible data store it gives you up to
16 terabytes that you can utilize for
your machine that's a little bit out of
the scope of this tutorial but I'd be
glad to help any of you out this week
set that up if you if you'd like so just
find me around here and I'll gladly help
you out with that but yeah choose
whatever data center you want
Frankfurt's probably gonna be one of the
fastest ones for all of you here is it's
the closest one to a Spain and then once
we've chosen that we like to set up ipv6
well that's it's just another way that
people can find your node and then
setting up monitoring is nice these are
all free options they don't cost you
anything and it's nice to see if
anything goes wrong on your node you
should see you'll see you have RAM
spikes CPU spikes these are all nice
things that kind of help you as a
developer understand that I understand
how you might be able to pinpoint issues
as they happen so SSH can I get a show
of hands how many of you are familiar
with SSH okay most of you we're going to
go through the SSH setup process just to
make sure that we're all kind of just
make sure we're going to cut out the
variables SSH is a nice tool for any
developer working on remote systems it
allows you to securely restrict access
to your machine so only you can access
it and some of you may already have a
key but for those of you that don't
let's let's learn how to create one so
like I said if you are to have a key
just wait we'll we'll get to how that
that plays into things we'll give you a
little bit of a breather for now so
we're gonna use OpenSSH for those of you
that don't have a key to create it it's
a fairly open standard this should work
on your Mac's your Windows machines your
Linux machines basically all of them
will have OpenSSH compatibility to do
this this is where we're going to get
into the the github page this will come
in handy all of these all of these texts
instructions that you're going to see
there verbatim what you're going to
github page so you should be able to
just copy and paste things there but if
you run into issues feel free to raise
your hand and we can go over those so
open up your terminal and we're going to
type in SSH desk - key gem this is going
to generate a private and public to you
that you can use to basically
authenticate with your remote server
make sure that that server knows hey it
actually is you when you're connecting -
it helps keep intruders out if you so
important here do not choose to
overwrite if the key already exists if
you guys already have a key I should
have said this first but if you already
have a key don't override it because you
probably are using that for some other
system and you don't want to forget that
key or else you'll have to reset some
things up which is not fun we can use
the key that already exists for for
digitalocean you can optionally provide
a password each time you use your key
and it's recommended for security
reasons but if you're lazy just hit
enter twice and you won't need a
password for your ssh so now that we
have an S as such SSH key created let's
copy that and that's gonna be what we're
gonna put into digitalocean
so to copy your ssh key you can do any
of these things a lot of you are
probably familiar with command line work
so just type in this cat SSH yeah copy
that command you can get it from your
terminal it's likely that's where it's
stored some of you may have your key
saved in a different location I'm
assuming if you have your key saved in a
different location that you know how to
grab it so travel to wherever that's at
and then just copy the contents of it
yeah so make sure that's all copied on
to your clipboard and then once you have
that let's go back to the digitalocean
GUI and basically add our SSH key there
should be a button that's basically says
new SSH key will click that will copy
the contents that we just created into
this
we can name it whatever we like and
we'll click add SSH key and that'll be
from this point on you can use this you
can just check it and digitalocean will
save that that public signing kind of
key there and you will never have to add
your SSH key again for new droplets
it'll always be there you can certainly
add more keys if you'd like but that's
up to you so once we've done that we're
going to name our node whatever we like
I like to name it my amazing ipfs node
once we have that just click create it
should take a little bit of spin up time
probably 30 seconds to a minute and then
once it's once it's good you should see
something like this I'll take you back
to your main page that'll show all of
your servers that you've spun up and
you'll get a little IP address for your
node that'll be fun that we can connect
to it how's everybody doing so far if
I'll ask the hand raised again or you
guys do you guys all have your node
created being crated ok well we'll give
that another another 30 seconds or so
yeah so digitalocean is nice you can I
do a lot of stuff from the GUI it kind
of makes your life a little bit easier
if you don't want to live in the
command-line world they have a little
options for you can turn your note on
and off you can get statistics for it
feel free to play around with that
afterwards that IP address you see here
once it's created is gonna be the most
important part that'll be how we connect
to things cool I'm hoping everybody's
note is created so far you know keep
moving so now that we have our node
setup we have that IP address that we
saw let's go ahead and copy that
you can do that pretty easily just by
like clicking on the the IP address that
should just automatically copy it to
your clipboard once we have that we're
going to use that SSH key that we just
created
and we're going to SSH into the root of
our droplet kinda like the admin user
here so you should need to type yes if
you're a cessation into your node for
the first time I'm just kinda hit enter
and once that's done if you you should
be connected to your droplet you may
need to enter a password if you did do
that for your SSH key it may prompt you
for that okay so once we're SSH into our
droplet let's let's update it this is if
you guys run into issues here let me
know I can I can provide a spare link
some to that did you guys fix the ipfs
kind of distribution repo the binaries
okay if you guys run into issues let me
know it can give you an alternative
length we host our own versions of the
the binaries just to make sure it's we
have access so in your terminal type out
apt - get update once you've done that
type apt - get upgrade this is kind of
upgrading your node and all the packages
on it make sure everything's up to date
if you get a pink screen asking whether
or not to automatically kind of do some
stuff hit the left arrow and then hit
enter this is basically a little
annoyance that you got to get through
I'm sorry sometimes you hit it sometimes
you don't and then once we're done with
that you may get another pink screen hit
enter again we're not that you can auto
remove the kind of installation stuff
that's up to you you don't really need
to but it's nice to clean it up and then
once we've done all this we can shut
down our node let's restart it make sure
all of our changes have been made your
droplet should now be updated and
rebooted fun okay
so we don't worry about kind of just let
it do its thing should just should kind
of do its stuff in the background so we
have an optional step here which is
created an on route user this is
something I'd recommend for those of you
that are serious about proving making
this stuff in production it's good
practice to have an on where user so you
don't accidentally just destroy some
things on your node due to a typo that's
kind of outside the scope of this course
if you'll notice that at the end of the
the github page there is a link that
talks a little bit more in depth
it's a written guide that I have which
basically goes over a lot of the things
you're seeing in this course it just
expands a little bit more on those kind
of more advanced topics and again if any
of you guys have questions just fly me
this we can be more than happy to help
you out so we've created our droplet but
anybody in the world right now can
connect to it
we have no firewalls we have no we have
no real security around it outside of
SSH SSH allows us to kind of control the
node but anybody can hit any port on our
machine right now and we don't want that
we want to make sure people are only
connected on the port's that we want to
so let's do some network insecurity on
the main digitalocean page let's click
on network in and once you are there
let's click on firewalls
once you're there let's click create
fireball good awesome okay okay so these
are going to be the ports that you're
going to want to enable on your ipfs
node for those of you they're unaware
ipfs communicates with the rest of the
ipfs network using port 4001 that's a
default setting you can change this if
you guys for whatever reason have odd
firewall settings or requirements you
can change that port it is something
that people do but it is 4001 by default
so we're going to enable that and then
port 8080 is what you're going to want
to enable if you want to run a gateway
for those of you unaware an IP FS
gateway is what you can use to basically
grab content from the ipfs network
without actually running your own node
it allows users to go and type in the
little URL bar at the top of their
browser and retrieve content from the
network without needing to spin up their
node so I'd recommend enabling it we'll
go over at the end of the course kind of
how to enable that gateway but so we
don't have to go back and set up the
firewalls just I didn't able it for now
in terms of outbound rules just enable
everything it doesn't really matter what
sure what your notice sending out should
not be a security concern
drink some water real quick
okay now let's get to the fun part we've
done all the dirty work and now we get
to actually work with ipfs that's what
she guys all came to this camp for so
well we'll get to that so installing
ipfs fairly straightforward just copy
these commands that you see here first
we're going to grab the ipfs update
binary so ipfs update is a really nice
tool that the protocol ops team has put
together that allows you to basically
continually update your IP FS node from
the command line without having to
manually pull new branches every time
ipfs has an update or a new release it's
how we prefer to update our
infrastructure I'd recommend using it
yourself it also helps with migrations
so if there's ever like a crazy breaking
change between versions ipfs update has
automatically handled those data store
migrations I think it will continue to
do that in the future so yeah again
highly recommend using IP FS update so
once you've downloaded it will unzip it
and then we will go into the ipfs folder
using the CD command if anybody is
confused on any of these command line
commands just love you know I kind of
live in this world right now so
sometimes I forget what's familiar to
people and what's not let's sue me most
people are familiar but don't be afraid
to ask questions
happy to help once we have ipfs update
downloaded there's a handy little
install script that they provide as well
you made it pretty pretty
straightforward for us so just hit
install dot our type the command you see
there installed on Sh that'll run the
shell script and yeah ipfs should be a
PFS update should be installed on your
computer so now that we have ipfs update
installed
let's actually install ipfs so let's go
ahead and install the latest version of
ipfs update we're just going to type IP
FS - update install latest that'll get
current version this is 0.4 point 2 1
right now it's a fun version we're going
to admit our our IP FS node so one thing
you'll notice there is you should see
this - - profile server that's pretty
important when we talked about earlier
in the course we talked about the
different types of nodes that we had the
server nodes and we had the client nodes
there's ipfs has a bunch of different
configurations that you can set up the -
- profile server setting allows you to
basically pre-configure in your node to
serve content to the network
conn takes a lot of the headache out of
running your own IP FS server once
that's installed we're going to actually
check that we've installed ipfs and
let's type IP FS Damon this is gonna run
the actual IP FS node so if you see
something like this on your screen
congratulations you've installed ipfs
and it's running on your own remote
machine exciting stuff ok um so sorry
I'm trying to try to poke some fun in
the command line stuff I know it's
staring at text it's not the most
exciting but it's stable alright so
you'll notice there on your on your
command line you'll see you should see
the the IP addresses that your swarm is
listening on you should see a local IP
address you should see your public IP
addresses and the ports they're listing
on they transport their listing on this
is all kind of lid p2p stuff that's
happening behind the scenes and it's how
your note is basically talking with the
rest of the ipfs swarm
yeah okay but wait
we're almost there there's a problem
with what we've just done so if we if we
shut down our s our SSH session or if we
shut down that terminal you guys are
using IP FS itself is going to shut down
as well because our IP FS statement is
running it's connected to that actual
instance that you've used to connect to
your machine
we don't want I P FS to shut down when
we close our our SSH instance so let's
learn how to keep that running and make
sure things actually do stay online so
it differentiates the server's from the
laptops they stay online when we shut
them down so to keep ipfs running we're
going to create a system service system
services are these nice little things
that we can do in Ubuntu and they
basically allow the system to kind of
have these processes and scripts that
maintain our applications and our
processes on our node then give us a
little flexibility and how to do that so
let's create a system service you can
use vim if you like I will refrain from
passing my judgment on you
I like Nano it's I won't get I poke fun
but yassuh can use nano vim whatever you
want just create ipfs service in the
system D slash system directory again
this is all on github so copy and
pasting is your friend here to make sure
that this is all going to work stable it
once we're there we're gonna copy and
paste the following instructions into
our system service the you had a little
description the main thing you're going
to notice there is that this exact start
command this is basically saying hey
here's the command that we're going to
run to start the daemon every time we
start this service we're gonna run this
command it's the same thing as running
it in the command line we're gonna what
it's doing here is pointing to where I
PFS that binary is installed and then
it's just running the daemon in this
example we've enabled garbage collection
something to be aware of right now is
that ipfs does not have reference count
in for garbage collection so what this
means is you need to be a little careful
if you're running a production
environment and you enable or you run
garbage collection your node will stall
for certain operations and what I mean
by this is you can read from your node
just fine but so a gateway could access
your noted retrieve content from it but
while garbage collection is running ipfs
doesn't want to actually accidentally
delete something that is required by
something that is currently being pinned
so this means is that like painting
operations are unable to be used while
your notice garbage collect in so if you
get to production type scale that's
something to be aware of from what I
understand garbage collection reference
counting is something that ipfs team is
working on so maybe by the time you at
that point it won't be a problem but for
now ipfs cluster is your friend you can
basically maintain multiple nodes so you
can take one down run garbage collection
on it while pinning to the other one and
then they'll synch up later on that
gives a do a little more of an advanced
topic though so talk to Hector or check
out ipfs cluster if you guys are
interested in doing something like that
yes this guy - so know for that red we
have the restart variable here this is
what we're gonna make sure you guys have
this this basically says hey if ipfs
crashes for whatever reason let's screw
started if you shut off your node for
whatever reason if you want to take down
your droplet bring it back online no
worries
you don't have to manually restart all
this it starts up when your machine
starts up so your node will always be
online and then the environment is your
i PFS path so what I've put here this is
the default for what we have installed
right now specific to this course
installation if you if you ever choose
to put your your IP FS repo in a
different location on your machine say
you point it to block storage like we
talked about earlier on you're going to
want to make sure that that ipfs path is
changed to points wherever your data is
being stored at yeah and then we're
gonna want it by the entire system
multi-user target that's less important
to you guys but yeah once we're done
with all this hit control X and then Y
for yes to confirm things and then hit
enter your system should be created so
let's enable this service we just
created we'll reload our system with
using a system CTL this is kind of what
you use to control all these system
services you've just created
first we'll enable our service by daemon
reload then we will enable the ipfs
service that we specifically just
created we will now start that service
and then let's check the status of it
once we've done that this basically says
hey did it run correctly if you see this
this this is a good sign should see
active running you should see basically
that same sort of daemon output that we
saw earlier that when we were running it
via the CLI you should see something
very similar here that's running great
fantastic
this is success you guys have basically
just set up your own ipfs node in the
cloud yeah so that's that's kind of the
the bulk of setting up your own node
things should be running fairly stable
right now before we move on to kind of
the extra little fun extras do any of
you guys have any questions on what
we've done so far if any of you
encountered any issues I'd be happy to
talk about them right now yeah
multiple knots
yep so that the answer is yes and no if
you are running your nodes independently
of each other yes you can upgrade them
by themselves that doesn't really matter
and in fact you should be able to
upgrade ipfs most of the time by itself
the the caveat there comes when you were
running ipfs cluster as you want to make
sure that all of your nodes within your
ipfs cluster are running the same
version and that just helps the
stability it may still work without them
all being the same version but for your
sanity it's highly recommend to upgrade
them all at the same time yeah that's
yeah you cannot forget you can upgrade
them independently but just be aware
that it helps to upgrade them all at the
same time if you're running something
like cluster anything else that anybody
has any questions on cool
let's try pinning something I'm assuming
many of you have done something like
this before so let's try it out
I'm assuming you our are all still
connected to your your droplet in the
cloud if you're still seeing that kind
of like status that you've had from
earlier just hit control-c and that'll
get out of that little view that you
have there I allow you to type stuff
into the terminal again so in your
terminal let's add a hash this is just a
hash that has fairly good availability
on that ipfs network we've put in a lot
of blog posts and have it pinned in a
lot of nodes so hopefully your nodes
should be able to find it if not I blame
them yes but yeah it's it should be it
should be relatively available and then
the prot the progress command or the -
are there what you're actually paying is
a website that was uploaded ipfs in
directory format so what we're
recursively pinning all the sub sub
files there and sub sub hashes and then
the - test progress is really nice you
can kind of see and make sure that
things are actually happening hopefully
things have succeeded if not I'm very
sorry just can I get a show of hands
have you guys had much success of trying
to pin that hash perfect so yeah that's
nice DHT is working exactly exactly so
now that we've pinned this let's let's
try that gateway that we talked about
earlier we enabled port 8080 on our
machine so this means that the outside
world can hit port 8080 on our machine
and view our gateway but the default IP
FS config does not make that port
available to the world it's assuming
that you're gonna set something like
nginx up in front of your gateway which
recommended most people don't want to go
to your your droplets IP address slash
ipfs let's loss that hash most people
want to go to something like my node
comm slash ipfs slash that hash just a
little more user friendly so yeah let's
set up the the config to allow for this
what we're gonna do here is we're going
to run from the command line I PFS
config and then we're going to set up
the gateway address there's there's nice
little kind of CLI tools if you know the
if you know the setting you're looking
to change you can do it from the command
line
or you can edit the configuration file
itself that gets a little bit more
manual process so what we're setting it
here to is just the localhost version
that's available to the world and make
port 8080 available and once we've done
that I pee fast when you make changes to
it you're going to need to reset your
daemon or else those changes won't take
effect so we need to restart the daemon
make sure everything
boots up again then things should work
so once we've done that go to your
browser and let's type in your droplets
IP address colon 8080 /fs slash that
hash that your droplet IP should be the
only thing that you really need to
change there you should just be able to
copy and paste it from digitalocean
if you see a picture of a little
spinning pinata you you succeeded
congratulations you have a working
gateway on your machine um yeah that was
a fun little demo website it's a react
application if you guys are interested
in hosting your own websites we have a
few blogs out on that as well it should
kind of take you through that process
so the important parts how do not get
your credit card billed we've done some
fun stuff in this course if you want to
keep your droplet online for testing
purposes you're more than welcome to but
I would feel bad if I didn't mention
this and then you guys forgot about it
and your credit card got charged so yeah
so learn from Michaels mistakes unless
you want to keep your note up in which
you're awesome because you're helping
the ipfs network
yeah so let's go through that real quick
what next a little bit of a
choose-your-own-adventure at this point
we're going to show of hands missing
kind of what you guys want we have two
options here we can go over some tips
and tricks for node settings so based on
your guys's specific use case we can
talk about some of the configuration
settings that may be very helpful for
you in ipfs the other option is a little
bit of a Q&A session both Michael and I
are fairly well versed in maintaining
ipfs infrastructure so we'd be happy to
pass
on any of our knowledge to you yeah so
let's get a little bit of a show of
hands at this point for those of you
interested in tips and tricks or like
configuration settings raise your hand
okay got about three Q&A session okay
it's about even okay all I'll quickly
burn through the tips and tricks then we
can ask some questions so for those of
you that are running on local networks
or like home Wi-Fi settings there's this
discovery settings there's this thing
called mdns which is basically how you
find local peers on your network it's
pretty useful it's from one of that like
offline first scenario that a lot of
people might be passionate about for
like IOT type stuff or you know private
networks so if you do this it
discriminately yep the routing settings
so this is pretty important you guys
that have set up your server profiles
that we just did here we've set up the
routing to say DHT that it means that
you are broadcasting content to the
network and you're going to serve
content to the network this is again a
lot of your like applications will be
running DHT nodes or full DHT nodes and
then we talked about clients earlier
this DHT client setting means that your
client will only consume content from
the network it won't serve it there's a
lot of trial and error that we've we've
encountered or not sometimes we've
forgotten when we've done some testing
stuff like why isn't it loading it's
because one of the server nodes is set
to DHT clients this is really good for
like desktops most people are not going
to be providing
on their local desktops they're mainly
going to be consuming content so for
desktop type applications or phone
applications unless you're specifically
sending content to other servers you're
probably going to want to set the DHT
client setting other tips and tricks
there's this connection manager setting
and there are these two options that you
can configure called high water and low
water these are going to be the maximum
number of nodes your server will connect
to and then once it hits that max
setting it's going to garbage collect a
couple of those connections able garbage
collect down to what the low water
setting is so there's a lot of different
options you can use here it's really
just kind of pick whatever works best
for your infrastructure for us we have a
lot of connections because the DHT
doesn't really we've kind of outgrown
the DHT as a provider so we need to hop
over top of that and connect to as many
nodes as possible
and that's how our content gets found
quickly if we've relied purely on the
DHT where we have so many route provider
records that our node can't send it
can't announce it to the network fast
enough so our nodes are set to announce
things every 12 hours it can only get
through a fraction of our total records
in that 12 hours so without connecting
to a ton of nodes stuff would not be
able to be found so if you guys are
running high high-volume
processes where you're doing a lot of a
lot of root nodes or a lot of individual
files that you've pinned and not just a
bunch of a few big files you're probably
going to want to have a very high high
water set in and your low water setting
I would set it to a couple thousand
below that - because you don't want to
garbage collect all the way down to like
a thousand cuz then you just gotta have
accumulated connections again you only
want to garbage collect a few
we connect to around 30,000 per node
that's just we're continually increasing
that just because we don't want to go
full these guys yet and connector like a
hundred thousand peers but because we
haven't needed to yet but we are
continual increase in this kind of
testing our limits we haven't had any
issues with it but yeah it depends we
some of our machines are running like 32
cores 190 gigs of ram but keep keep in
mind there that's we're not using or
even remotely like close to the maximum
out there our machines are probably at
like 5% usage of our resources at any
given time the big the big reason why we
do that is because the more cores you
have the better that's more blocks you
can be fetching in parallel from the
network and that's kind of a it's a
dirty trick that we're using right now
until like single core parallelization
becomes more of a factor in ipfs yeah
we'd love to be able to kind of max out
our cores but we just can't do that
right now so yeah we just have a lot of
course oh yeah okay yeah
lastly NAT that horrible thing that
everybody hates
it's what kind of prevents nodes from
being found a lot of the time it's
really annoying to deal with but it's
not impossible
so to basically get your your fire past
the firewall situation ipfs has some
relay type stuff basically this means
you can enable if you have Auto relay
enabled on your node other nodes can
connect to you and if they're behind a
nasty firewall they can basically use
your node as an intermediary to talk to
other nodes that's pretty cool and then
enable auto nat service yeah these are
yeah I think I put the same thing for
both of these I'm honestly forgetting
which one is which at this plant do you
know the the difference between these
two yeah okay yeah so the relay setting
basically means people can use your
notice of relay to transfer yes fair
warned in there you are basically paying
for everybody's bandwidth that uses you
as it realized so enable that with
caution and then the enable nat service
allows people to check your note and say
am i behind a terrible in that situation
those are often enabled together yes
we're at the Q&A session now so you're
up
yes so there is not punching enable to
my PFS
these two guys are probably a lot better
equipped to explain that than I am
yep yep yeah sure just curious so it
seems to be the insert like any servers
service like what you guys are doing is
in wait
- like traditional skin companies
companies so I was wondering if maybe
you guys could talk a bit how do you see
like the trade offs that's uh that is
open any question yeah so the very short
answer is there's a lot of possibilities
the kind of more where I'd see stuff
going is ipfs has a lot of very powerful
potential to act as a CDN it kind of
like a build-your-own CDN type situation
the caveat there is that the DHT is
something that is not friendly to that
my nature we talked about like kind of
content add content announcing and
that's really tough to do if you're
bringing a lot of smaller nodes kind of
all around the world and trying to keep
them all in sync where I think that ipfs
may there's going to need to be some
second layer solutions there to kind of
fully get that CDM aspect of ipfs to
work at to its full potential to
actually rival something like say Akamai
or CloudFlare or whatever I don't have
all the solutions there that's actually
something that I frequently talk with
these guys about it's like how can we
kind of improve this type of situation
yeah yeah cluster is a great solution
for that it's interesting right now
because ipfs dhts are kind of provide
they're designed for very popular files
to be found easily so you know the
newest version of Game of Thrones comes
out there's a million bad people out
there in the world that are all torrent
in it
I'm sorry hypothetically speaking yes
that's gonna be really easy to find
because there's a lot of seeds and
there's a lot of people announcing that
very big file that root content because
of the blockchain industry right now a
lot of companies are using IP FS to kind
of get around the high storage costs of
blockchains
they're storing 200 byte files one
kilobyte files on ipfs just because it's
so expensive to store data on a
blockchain
but the problem is they're throwing like
tens of thousands hundreds of thousands
millions of these little files on IP FS
and the their access to very
infrequently most people don't care
about that data but the companies
themselves still want that data to be
findable so it's kind of one of those
things we're like that's where actually
modern web kind of shines with DNS with
ipfs it gets tricky so it'sit's kind of
that like next the way ipfs is being
used by the blockchain space is it's a
very good experiment but it makes things
very challenging people people kind of
often have I don't want to say
unrealistic expectations of what ipfs
can provide but that might be the best
way to put it
he's a public resource essentially that
is provided by vertical apps we run this
infrastructure for the ecosystem and
it's not realistically it can't be a
free-for-all
so there is a limit to how much
performance we can provide
yep yeah it's a it's a it's kind of a
tragedy of the Commons situation where
if people rely on gateways too much the
free ones are gonna get abused if you
want your your gateway to be popular for
whatever reason maybe your company
relies on that gateway as it gets more
popular you need to increase the specs
of it as you increase the specs of it
more people want to use it which
inherently makes it run slower again and
eventually you need to increase the
specs of it yeah and that's and that's
the problem with gateway providers right
now is this is this is why CloudFlare
had to shut down their their video
streaming is because how gateways work
is they go and when you fetch content
from the Gateway it caches that content
and so many people were basically just
using cloud flairs gateway to retrieve
video content and I'm sure you guys get
this a lot and effectively it turns that
gateway provider into a makeshift
YouTube when and YouTube gets a lot of
traffic video uses a lot of bandwidth so
and then the sad thing is they're the
original like sources of that data the
nodes that are seating that data
initially they only pay the bandwidth
for giving that content to the Gateway
but then the Gateway basically foots the
cost of providing that content once it
has it because everybody is using the
Gateway to retrieve the content so it uh
it becomes a very big problem very fast
if you're not careful about it so it's
it's an ongoing problem it's kind of a
answer there
any other questions nothing okay well I
hope you guys have fun
learned a thing or two again if you have
any questions I'll be around
the rest of the camp so just come find
me I'm happy to help out in any way I
can
yeah basically if you wanted to destroy
your droplet it's you shut your droplet
off you're still going to be charged for
it as their stillness or in that space
the only way to avoid being billed is to
destroy that you can make a copy of it
if you want or you can follow this
tutorial in and so though yourself again
but yeah to destroy a droplet you go to
your droplet click destroy it and then
click destroyed and they're delicious
you know before TV bill